# Looking closer at the stack file

Stack files are almost identical to Compose files. The differences come at runtime Swarm and Stacks might support a different set of features than Compose. For example, Stacks don’t support building images from Dockerfiles but Compose does.

One of the first things Docker does when deploying an app from a stack file is create the required networks listed under the *network*s key. If the networks don’t already exist, Docker creates them.


## Networks and networking
The sample app defines a single network called `counter-net`. We’re forcing it to be an overlay network and we’re encrypting the data plane.
```
networks:
  counter-net:
    driver: overlay
    driver_opts:
      encrypted: 'yes'
```
It needs to be an overlay network so it can span all nodes in the swarm.

Encrypting the data ensures traffic is private. However, this incurs a performance penalty that varies based on factors such as traffic type and traffic flow. It’s not uncommon for the performance penalty to be around 10%, but you should perform extensive testing against your -particular applications.

The stack also defines a port mapping for the *web-fe* service:
```
services:
  web-fe:
  <Snip>
    ports:
      - target: 8080
      published: 5001
```
This publishes port 5001 on the swarm-wide ingress network and redirects traffic to port 8080 in any of the service replicas. 


## Volumes and mounts
The app defines a single volume called `counter-vol` and mounts it into the */app/* directory on all redis replicas. Any read or write operations to the */app* folder will be read and written to the volume.
```
volumes:
  counter-vol:

services:
  redis:
    <Snip>
    volumes:
      - type: volume
        source: counter-vol
        target: /app
```


## Services
Services are where most of the action happens. Our application defines two and we’ll look at each in turn.

### The web-fe service
As you can see, the `web-fe` service defines an image, an app, a replica count, an update configuration, a restart policy, a network, a published port, and a volume.
```
web-fe:
    image: nigelpoulton/ddd-book:swarm-app
    command: python app.py
    deploy:
      mode: replicated
      replicas: 10
      update_config:
        parallelism: 2
        delay: 10s
        failure_action: rollback
      placement:
        constraints:
          - 'node.role == worker'
      restart_policy:
        condition: on-failure
        delay: 5s
        max_attempts: 3
        window: 120s
    networks:
      - counter-net
    ports:
      - published: 5001
        target: 8080
    volumes:
      - type: volume
        source: counter-vol
        target: /app
```
The **image** key is the only mandatory key in the service object and it defines the image used to build the service replicas. Remember, a service is one or more identical containers.

Docker is *opinionated* and assumes you want to pull images from Docker Hub. However, you can use 3rd-party registries by adding the registry’s DNS name before the image name.

One difference between Docker Stacks and Docker Compose is that stacks don’t support **builds**. This means all images have to be built before we deploy the stack.

The **command** key defines the app to run in each replica. Our example is telling Docker to run `python app.py` as the main process in every service replica.
```
web-fe:
  <Snip>
  command: python app.py
```

The **deploy.mode** defines the replication model used to run the service on the platform. Either `global`, exactly one container per physical node, or `replicated`, a specified number of containers. The default is *replicated*.
```
web-fe:
  deploy:
    mode: global  
```

The **deploy.replicas** key is telling swarm to deploy and manage 4 service replicas. All replicas are identical other than names and IPs, if the service is replicated (which is the default).

**Note:** If you need to change the number of replicas after you’ve deployed the service, you should do so declaratively. This means updating `deploy.replicas` field in the stack file with the new value and then redeploying the stack. We’ll see this later, but re-deploying a stack does not affect services that you haven’t made a change to.
```
web-fe:
  deploy:
    replicas:4
```

The **deploy.update_config** block says to perform updates by updating two replicas at a time, wait 10 seconds in between each set, and perform a rollback if the update encounters a problem. **Rolling back** will start new replicas based on the previous
definition of the service. The default value for `failure_action` is **pause**, which will stop further replicas being updated. The other option is **continue**.
```
web-fe:
  deploy:
    update_config:
      parallelism: 2
      delay: 10s
      failure_action:rollback
```

The **deploy.placement** block forces all replicas onto *worker nodes*.
```
web-fe:
  deploy:
    placement:
      constraints:
        - 'node.role == worker'  ### (or 'node.role: worker')
```

The **deploy.restart_policy** block says to restart replicas if they fail. It also says to try a maximum of 3 times, wait 5 seconds in-between each restart attempt, and wait up to 120 seconds to decide if the restart worked.
```
web-fe:
  deploy:
    restart_policy:
      condition: on-failure
      max_attempts: 3
      delay: 5s
      window: 120s
```

The **networks** key tells swarm to attach all replicas to the `counter-net` network.
```
web-fe:
  networks:
    - counter-net
```

The **ports** block publishes the app on the ingress network on port *5001* and the `counter-net` network on *8080*. This ensures traffic hitting the swarm on 5001 gets redirected to the service replicas on 8080.
```
web-fe:
  ports:
    - published: 5001
      target: 8080
```

Finally, the **volumes** block mounts the `counter-vol` volume into `/app` in each service replica.
```
web-fe:
  volumes:
    - type: volume
      source: counter-vol
      target: /app
```

### The redis service
The redis service is much simpler. It pulls the `redis:alpine` image, starts a single replica, and attaches it to the `counter-net` network. This is the same network as the `web-fe` service, meaning the two services will be able to communicate with each other by name (“redis” and “web-fe”).
```
redis:
  image: "redis:alpine"
  networks:
    counter-net:
```

Let’s deploy the app.
